Add support for ScrapeConfig CRD to `prometheus.operator` (#2638)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/prometheus/prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/prometheus/prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs/
aliases:
  - ../prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs/ # /docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs/

> description: Learn about prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs
> title: prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs
labels:
  stage: experimental
title: prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs
```

---

> # `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs`
> 
> `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` discovers [ScrapeConfig](https://prometheus-operator.dev/docs/api-reference/api/#monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1.ScrapeConfig) resources in your Kubernetes cluster and scrapes the targets they reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs`

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/experimental.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

`prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` discovers [ScrapeConfig](https://prometheus-operator.dev/docs/api-reference/api/#monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1.ScrapeConfig) resources in your Kubernetes cluster and scrapes the targets they reference.
```

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/prometheus/prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs/
aliases:
  - ../prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs/ # /docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs/
description: Learn about prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs
labels:
  stage: experimental
title: prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs
---

# `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs`

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/experimental.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

`prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` discovers [ScrapeConfig](https://prometheus-operator.dev/docs/api-reference/api/#monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1.ScrapeConfig) resources in your Kubernetes cluster and scrapes the targets they reference.
This component performs two main functions:

1. Discover ScrapeConfig resources from your Kubernetes cluster.

> 2. Scrape metrics from the targets, and forward them to a receiver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Scrape metrics from the targets, and forward them to a receiver.
```

We use "lazy numbering" in the Grafana markdown :-)

The default configuration assumes {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is running inside a Kubernetes cluster, and uses the in-cluster configuration to access the Kubernetes API.
You can run {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} from outside the cluster by supplying connection info in the `client` block, but network level access to `scrapeconfigs` is required to scrape metrics from them.

`scrapeconfigs` may reference secrets for authenticating to targets to scrape them.

> In these cases, the secrets are loaded and refreshed only when the ScrapeConfig is updated or when this component refreshes its' internal state, which happens on a 5-minute refresh cycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In these cases, the secrets are loaded and refreshed only when the ScrapeConfig is updated or when this component refreshes its internal state, which happens on a 5-minute refresh cycle.
```

| `proxy_connect_header`   | `map(list(secret))` | Specifies headers to send to proxies during CONNECT requests.                                    |         | no       |
| `proxy_from_environment` | `bool`              | Use the proxy URL indicated by environment variables.                                            | `false` | no       |
| `proxy_url`              | `string`            | HTTP proxy to send requests through.                                                             |         | no       |

 At most, one of the following can be provided:
 
* [`authorization`][authorization] block
* [`basic_auth`][basic_auth] block
* [`bearer_token`][client] argument
* [`bearer_token_file`][client] argument
* [`oauth2`][oauth2] block

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/http-client-proxy-config-description.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

### `authorization`

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/authorization-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

### `basic_auth`

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/basic-auth-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> ### oauth2 block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `oauth2`
```

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/oauth2-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> ### tls_config block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `tls_config`
```

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/tls-config-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> ### rule block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `rule`
```

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/rule-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> ### scrape block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `scrape`
```

| -------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `match_labels` | `map(string)` | Label keys and values used to discover resources. | `{}`    | no       |

When the `match_labels` argument is empty, all ScrapeConfig resources will be matched.

### `match_expression`

The `match_expression` block describes a Kubernetes label matcher expression for scrapeconfigs discovery.

The following arguments are supported:

| Name       | Type           | Description                        | Default | Required |
| ---------- | -------------- | ---------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `key`      | `string`       | The label name to match against.   |         | yes      |
| `operator` | `string`       | The operator to use when matching. |         | yes      |
| `values`   | `list(string)` | The values used when matching.     |         | no       |

The `operator` argument must be one of the following strings:

* `"In"`
* `"NotIn"`
* `"Exists"`
* `"DoesNotExist"`

If there are multiple `match_expressions` blocks inside of a `selector` block, they are combined together with AND clauses.

> ### `clustering`

Reviewer: We should move the `clustering` section up above `rule` so it's in the same place in the docs hierarchy as it is sitting in the Block table.

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/prometheus/prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs/
aliases:
  - ../prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs/ # /docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs/
description: Learn about prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs
title: prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs
---

> 

Author: I am definitively not the authority to answer this questions :-). However, reading https://github.com/grafana/alloy/blob/main/docs/developer/adding-community-components.md my intuition is that it should have the same status as the other `prometheus.operator` components (`servicemonitors`, `podmonitors` and `probes`).

---

Some additional thoughts/checks regarding https://github.com/grafana/alloy/blob/main/docs/developer/adding-community-components.md:

> The community components category is mainly targeted at vendor-specific components for which Grafana does not offer commercial support (for example the Datadog exporter).

It's neither vendor specific nor proprietary, and I assume we can safely say that those Prometheus Operator CRDs are kind of an open (source) de-facto standard.

> Avoid overlapping functionalities.

AFAIK, this component closed a feature gap and I am not aware of overlapping functionalities. 

> Avoid components that can be implemented as [modules](https://github.com/grafana/alloy/blob/main/docs/sources/get-started/modules.md).

AFAIK, this component closed a feature gap and I am not aware of achieving the same with modules.

> Avoid components that affect our dependencies in an undesired way, such as pulling in an incompatible version or bloating the collector.

Should be OK, as it depends on the same dependencies as the other `prometheus.operator` components.

>     Make sure that the code licenses are compatible with Alloy's [license](https://github.com/grafana/alloy/blob/main/LICENSE).

Should be OK, as it depends on the same dependencies as the other `prometheus.operator` components.

>     You are willing to be a maintainer of the component.
>

> 

Author: @clayton-cornell Who can make a final decision on that?

> 

Reviewer: @alex-berger Sorry, I was off on PTO for a day in there and didn't get back on to this PR right away. 

@mattdurham is this one you could weigh-in on?

> 

Reviewer: Discussion with the dev team and its looks to be a standard component as you suspected :-)

> 

Author: > Is this an Experimental, Public preview, or GA component?

@clayton-cornell Again, I am not the authority for this, but my gut feeling is that we should start with `Experimental` (as implemented in this PR). We can then test this feature in production and if necessary fix or improve it accordingly and later promote it to `Public preview` and `GA`.

> 

Reviewer: Yes, you're right. I forgot to finish the review where I added the markdown for Experimental.  That's done now and the suggestions for the markdown tweak are visible.

The comment yesterday about a "standard component" was in reference to community supported vs standard. 

So... I think we're all OK on the docs once the Experimental badge and note are included.

> # prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs`
```

> `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` discovers [ScrapeConfig](https://prometheus-operator.dev/docs/api-reference/api/#monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1.ScrapeConfig) resources in your kubernetes cluster and scrapes the targets they reference. This component performs three main functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` discovers [ScrapeConfig](https://prometheus-operator.dev/docs/api-reference/api/#monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1.ScrapeConfig) resources in your Kubernetes cluster and scrapes the targets they reference.
This component performs three main functions:
```

1. Discover ScrapeConfig resources from your Kubernetes cluster.

> 2. Scrape metrics from the targets, and forward them to a receiver.

Author: Fixed the docs, there are only two (not three) main functions.

> The default configuration assumes {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is running inside a Kubernetes cluster, and uses the in-cluster configuration to access the Kubernetes API. It can be run from outside the cluster by supplying connection info in the `client` block, but network level access to scrapeconfigs is required to scrape metrics from them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default configuration assumes {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is running inside a Kubernetes cluster, and uses the in-cluster configuration to access the Kubernetes API.
You can run {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} from outside the cluster by supplying connection info in the `client` block, but network level access to `scrapeconfigs` is required to scrape metrics from them.
```

> scrapeconfigs may reference secrets for authenticating to targets to scrape them. In these cases, the secrets are loaded and refreshed only when the ScrapeConfig is updated or when this component refreshes its' internal state, which happens on a 5-minute refresh cycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`scrapeconfigs` may reference secrets for authenticating to targets to scrape them.
In these cases, the secrets are loaded and refreshed only when the ScrapeConfig is updated or when this component refreshes its' internal state, which happens on a 5-minute refresh cycle.
```

## Usage

```alloy

> prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs "LABEL" {
>     forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs "<LABEL>" {
    forward_to = <RECEIVER_LIST>
```

}
```

## Arguments

> The following arguments are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following arguments with `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs`:
```

This suggestion is once of several style changes that are in-progress. I haven't updated the template or the `prometheus.*` topics yet, but we can catch a few of the key changes here.

> Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
> ---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
> `forward_to` | `list(MetricsReceiver)` | List of receivers to send scraped metrics to. | | yes
> `namespaces` | `list(string)` | List of namespaces to search for ScrapeConfig resources. If not specified, all namespaces will be searched. || no
> `informer_sync_timeout` | `duration` | Timeout for initial sync of ScrapeConfig resources. | `1m` | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name                    | Type                    | Description                                                                                             | Default | Required |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `forward_to`            | `list(MetricsReceiver)` | List of receivers to send scraped metrics to.                                                           |         | yes      |
| `informer_sync_timeout` | `duration`              | Timeout for initial sync of ScrapeConfig resources.                                                     | `1m`    | no       |
| `namespaces`            | `list(string)`          | List of namespaces to search for ScrapeConfig resources. If not specified, all namespaces are searched. |         | no       |
```

Table formatting (for consistency in the markdown), alphabetized/sorted rows (required first, then alpha)

## Blocks

> The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following blocks with `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs`:
```

> Hierarchy | Block | Description | Required
> --------- | ----- | ----------- | --------
> client | [client][] | Configures Kubernetes client used to find scrapeconfigs. | no
> client > basic_auth | [basic_auth][] | Configure basic authentication to the Kubernetes API. | no
> client > authorization | [authorization][] | Configure generic authorization to the Kubernetes API. | no
> client > oauth2 | [oauth2][] | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating to the Kubernetes API. | no
> client > oauth2 > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the Kubernetes API. | no
> client > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the Kubernetes API. | no
> rule | [rule][] | Relabeling rules to apply to discovered targets. | no
> scrape | [scrape][] | Default scrape configuration to apply to discovered targets. | no
> selector | [selector][] | Label selector for which scrapeconfigs to discover. | no
> selector > match_expression | [match_expression][] | Label selector expression for which scrapeconfigs to discover. | no
> clustering | [clustering][] | Configure the component for when {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is running in clustered mode. | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Block                                               | Description                                                                                 | Required |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| [`client`][client]                                  | Configures Kubernetes client used to find `scrapeconfigs`.                                  | no       |
| `client` > [`authorization`][authorization]         | Configure generic authorization to the Kubernetes API.                                      | no       |
| `client` > [`basic_auth`][basic_auth]               | Configure basic authentication to the Kubernetes API.                                       | no       |
| `client` > [`oauth2`][oauth2]                       | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating to the Kubernetes API.                                  | no       |
| `client` > `oauth2` > [`tls_config`][tls_config]    | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the Kubernetes API.                                | no       |
| `client` > [`tls_config`][tls_config]               | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the Kubernetes API.                                | no       |
| [`clustering`][clustering]                          | Configure the component for when {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is running in clustered mode. | no       |
| [`rule`][rule]                                      | Relabeling rules to apply to discovered targets.                                            | no       |
| [`scrape`][scrape]                                  | Default scrape configuration to apply to discovered targets.                                | no       |
| [`selector`][selector]                              | Label selector for which `scrapeconfigs` to discover.                                       | no       |
| `selector` > [`match_expression`][match_expression] | Label selector expression for which `scrapeconfigs` to discover.                            | no       |
```

More changes that match incoming changes to the component topics.
* Format table
* Drop Hierarchy column
* Change format of Blocks and fix up the linking

> The `>` symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting. For example, `client >
> basic_auth` refers to a `basic_auth` block defined
> inside a `client` block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The > symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting.
For example, `client` > `basic_auth` refers to a `basic_auth` block defined inside a `client` block.
```

> [client]: #client-block
> [basic_auth]: #basic_auth-block
> [authorization]: #authorization-block
> [oauth2]: #oauth2-block
> [tls_config]: #tls_config-block
> [selector]: #selector-block
> [match_expression]: #match_expression-block
> [rule]: #rule-block
> [scrape]: #scrape-block
> [clustering]: #clustering-block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[client]: #client
[authorization]: #authorization
[basic_auth]: #basic_auth
[oauth2]: #oauth2
[clustering]: #clustering
[selector]: #selector
[match_expression]: #match_expression
[rule]: #rule
[scrape]: #scrape
[tls_config]: #tls_config
```

> ### client block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `client`
```

> The `client` block configures the Kubernetes client used to discover scrapeconfigs. If the `client` block isn't provided, the default in-cluster
> configuration with the service account of the running {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} pod is
> used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `client` block configures the Kubernetes client used to discover `scrapeconfigs`.
If the `client` block isn't provided, the default in-cluster configuration with the service account of the running {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} Pod is used.
```

The following arguments are supported:

> Name                     | Type                | Description                                                   | Default | Required
> -------------------------|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------
> `api_server`             | `string`            | URL of the Kubernetes API server.                             |         | no
> `kubeconfig_file`        | `string`            | Path of the `kubeconfig` file to use for connecting to Kubernetes. |    | no
> `bearer_token_file`      | `string`            | File containing a bearer token to authenticate with.          |         | no
> `bearer_token`           | `secret`            | Bearer token to authenticate with.                            |         | no
> `enable_http2`           | `bool`              | Whether HTTP2 is supported for requests.                      | `true`  | no
> `follow_redirects`       | `bool`              | Whether redirects returned by the server should be followed.  | `true`  | no
> `proxy_url`              | `string`            | HTTP proxy to send requests through.                          |         | no
> `no_proxy`               | `string`            | Comma-separated list of IP addresses, CIDR notations, and domain names to exclude from proxying. | | no
> `proxy_from_environment` | `bool`              | Use the proxy URL indicated by environment variables.         | `false` | no
> `proxy_connect_header`   | `map(list(secret))` | Specifies headers to send to proxies during CONNECT requests. |         | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name                     | Type                | Description                                                                                      | Default | Required |
| ------------------------ | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- | -------- |
| `api_server`             | `string`            | URL of the Kubernetes API server.                                                                |         | no       |
| `bearer_token_file`      | `string`            | File containing a bearer token to authenticate with.                                             |         | no       |
| `bearer_token`           | `secret`            | Bearer token to authenticate with.                                                               |         | no       |
| `enable_http2`           | `bool`              | Whether HTTP2 is supported for requests.                                                         | `true`  | no       |
| `follow_redirects`       | `bool`              | Whether redirects returned by the server should be followed.                                     | `true`  | no       |
| `kubeconfig_file`        | `string`            | Path of the `kubeconfig` file to use for connecting to Kubernetes.                               |         | no       |
| `no_proxy`               | `string`            | Comma-separated list of IP addresses, CIDR notations, and domain names to exclude from proxying. |         | no       |
| `proxy_connect_header`   | `map(list(secret))` | Specifies headers to send to proxies during CONNECT requests.                                    |         | no       |
| `proxy_from_environment` | `bool`              | Use the proxy URL indicated by environment variables.                                            | `false` | no       |
| `proxy_url`              | `string`            | HTTP proxy to send requests through.                                                             |         | no       |
```

Table format and alphabetize

>  At most, one of the following can be provided:
>  - [`bearer_token` argument][client].
>  - [`bearer_token_file` argument][client].
>  - [`basic_auth` block][basic_auth].
>  - [`authorization` block][authorization].
>  - [`oauth2` block][oauth2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 At most, one of the following can be provided:
 
* [`authorization`][authorization] block
* [`basic_auth`][basic_auth] block
* [`bearer_token`][client] argument
* [`bearer_token_file`][client] argument
* [`oauth2`][oauth2] block
```

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/http-client-proxy-config-description.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> ### basic_auth block
> 
> {{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/basic-auth-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}
> 
> ### authorization block
> 
> {{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/authorization-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `authorization`

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/authorization-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

### `basic_auth`

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/basic-auth-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

```

### oauth2 block

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/oauth2-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

### tls_config block

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/tls-config-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

### rule block

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/rule-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

### scrape block

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/prom-operator-scrape.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

### selector block

The `selector` block describes a Kubernetes label selector for scrapeconfigs.

> The following arguments are supported:
> 
> Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
> ---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
> `match_labels` | `map(string)` | Label keys and values used to discover resources. | `{}` | no
> 
> When the `match_labels` argument is empty, all ScrapeConfig resources will be matched.
> 
> ### match_expression block
> 
> The `match_expression` block describes a Kubernetes label matcher expression for
> scrapeconfigs discovery.
> 
> The following arguments are supported:
> 
> Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
> ---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
> `key` | `string` | The label name to match against. | | yes
> `operator` | `string` | The operator to use when matching. | | yes
> `values`| `list(string)` | The values used when matching. | | no
> 
> The `operator` argument must be one of the following strings:
> 
> * `"In"`
> * `"NotIn"`
> * `"Exists"`
> * `"DoesNotExist"`
> 
> If there are multiple `match_expressions` blocks inside of a `selector` block, they are combined together with AND clauses.
> 
> ### clustering block
> 
> Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
> ---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
> `enabled` | `bool` | Enables sharing targets with other cluster nodes. | `false` | yes
> 
> When {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is [using clustering][], and `enabled` is set to true,
> then this component instance opts-in to participating in
> the cluster to distribute scrape load between all cluster nodes.
> 
> Clustering assumes that all cluster nodes are running with the same
> configuration file, and that all
> `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` components that have opted-in to using clustering, over
> the course of a scrape interval have the same configuration.
> 
> All `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` components instances opting in to clustering use target
> labels and a consistent hashing algorithm to determine ownership for each of
> the targets between the cluster peers. Then, each peer only scrapes the subset
> of targets that it is responsible for, so that the scrape load is distributed.
> When a node joins or leaves the cluster, every peer recalculates ownership and
> continues scraping with the new target set. This performs better than hashmod
> sharding where _all_ nodes have to be re-distributed, as only 1/N of the
> target's ownership is transferred, but is eventually consistent (rather than
> fully consistent like hashmod sharding is).
> 
> If {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is _not_ running in clustered mode, then the block is a no-op, and
> `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` scrapes every target it receives in its arguments.
> 
> [using clustering]: ../../../../get-started/clustering/
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `selector`

The `selector` block describes a Kubernetes label selector for `scrapeconfigs`.

The following arguments are supported:

| Name           | Type          | Description                                       | Default | Required |
| -------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `match_labels` | `map(string)` | Label keys and values used to discover resources. | `{}`    | no       |

When the `match_labels` argument is empty, all ScrapeConfig resources will be matched.

### `match_expression`

The `match_expression` block describes a Kubernetes label matcher expression for scrapeconfigs discovery.

The following arguments are supported:

| Name       | Type           | Description                        | Default | Required |
| ---------- | -------------- | ---------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `key`      | `string`       | The label name to match against.   |         | yes      |
| `operator` | `string`       | The operator to use when matching. |         | yes      |
| `values`   | `list(string)` | The values used when matching.     |         | no       |

The `operator` argument must be one of the following strings:

* `"In"`
* `"NotIn"`
* `"Exists"`
* `"DoesNotExist"`

If there are multiple `match_expressions` blocks inside of a `selector` block, they are combined together with AND clauses.

### `clustering`

| Name      | Type   | Description                                       | Default | Required |
| --------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `enabled` | `bool` | Enables sharing targets with other cluster nodes. | `false` | yes      |

When {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is [using clustering][], and `enabled` is set to true, then this component instance opts-in to participating in the cluster to distribute scrape load between all cluster nodes.

Clustering assumes that all cluster nodes are running with the same configuration file, and that all `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` components that have opted-in to using clustering, over the course of a scrape interval have the same configuration.

All `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` components instances opting in to clustering use target labels and a consistent hashing algorithm to determine ownership for each of the targets between the cluster peers.
Then, each peer only scrapes the subset of targets that it is responsible for, so that the scrape load is distributed.
When a node joins or leaves the cluster, every peer recalculates ownership and continues scraping with the new target set.
This performs better than hashmod sharding where _all_ nodes have to be re-distributed, as only 1/N of the target's ownership is transferred, but is eventually consistent (rather than fully consistent like hashmod sharding is).

If {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} is _not_ running in clustered mode, then the block is a no-op, and `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` scrapes every target it receives in its arguments.

[using clustering]: ../../../../get-started/clustering/

```

## Exported fields

> `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` does not export any fields. It forwards all metrics it scrapes to the receiver configures with the `forward_to` argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` doesn't export any fields. It forwards all metrics it scrapes to the receiver configures with the `forward_to` argument.
```

## Component health

`prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` is reported as unhealthy when given an invalid configuration, Prometheus components fail to initialize, or the connection to the Kubernetes API could not be established properly.

## Debug information

> `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` reports the status of the last scrape for each configured
> scrape job on the component's debug endpoint, including discovered labels, and the last scrape time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` reports the status of the last scrape for each configured scrape job on the component's debug endpoint, including discovered labels, and the last scrape time.
```

It also exposes some debug information for each ScrapeConfig it has discovered, including any errors found while reconciling the scrape configuration from the ScrapeConfig.

## Debug metrics

> `prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs` doesn't expose any component-specific debug metrics.
```

## Example

This example discovers all scrapeconfigs in your cluster, and forwards collected metrics to a `prometheus.remote_write` component.

```alloy
prometheus.remote_write "staging" {
  // Send metrics to a locally running Mimir.
  endpoint {
    url = "http://mimir:9009/api/v1/push"

    basic_auth {
      username = "example-user"
      password = "example-password"
    }
  }
}

prometheus.operator.scrapeconfigs "scrapeconfigs" {
    forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.staging.receiver]
}
```

> This example will limit discovered scrapeconfigs to ones with the label `team=ops` in a specific namespace: `my-app`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example limits the discovered `scrapeconfigs` to ones with the label `team=ops` in a specific namespace: `my-app`.
```
